in this video I'd like to start to talk
about clustering this will be exciting
because this is offers unsupervised
learning algorithm where we learn from
unlabeled data instead of from labelled
data so what is unsupervised learning I
briefly talked about unsupervised
learning at the beginning of the class
but it's useful to contrast it with
supervised learning so here's a typical
supervised learning problem where we're
given a labeled training set and the
goal is to find the decision boundary
that separates the positive labeled
examples and the negative label examples
so the supervised learning problem in
this case is given a set of labels to
fit a hypothesis to it in contrast in
the unsupervised learning problem we're
given data that does not have any labels
associated with it so we're given data
that looks like this here's a set a
point and then no labels and so our
training set is written just X 1 X 2 and
so on up to X M and we don't get any
labels Y and that's why the points
plotted up on the figure don't have any
labels of them so in unsupervised
learning what we do is we give this sort
of unlabeled training set to an
algorithm and we just ask the algorithm
find some structure in the data for us
given this data set one type of
structure we might have an algorithm is
that it looks like this data set has
points grouped into two separate
clusters and so an algorithm data finds
the clusters like the ones I've just
circled is called a clustering algorithm
and this will be our first type of
unsupervised learning although there
will be other types of unsupervised
learning algorithms that we'll talk
about later that finds other types of
structure or other types of patterns in
the data other than clusters so talk
about this afterwards we'll talk about
clustering so what is clustering good
for early in this class I already
mentioned a few applications one is
market segmentation where you may have a
database of customers and want to group
them into different market segments so
you can sell to them separately or serve
your different market segments better
social network analysis directly you
know groups have done this things like
looking at a group of people's social
network so things like Facebook Google+
or maybe information about who are the
people people that you email the most
frequently and who are the people that
they email the most frequently and to
find coherent to groups of people so
this would be another may be clustering
algorithm where you want to find other
coherent groups of friends in the social
network here's something that one of my
friends actually worked on which is um
use clustering to organize compute
clusters or to organize data centers
better because if you know which
computers in the data center and the
cluster tend to work together you can
use that to reorganize your resources
and how you layout into networks and how
you design your data center and
communications and lastly something that
actually another firm worked on using
clustering algorithms to understand
galaxy formation and using that to
understand how to understand
astronomical the example
so that's clustering which is our first
example of an unsupervised learning
algorithm in the next video we'll start
to talk about a specific clustering
algorithm